add article on giving my first conference talk (#7)
rieckpil/progmot: content/post/giving-my-first-talk.md

What a feeling at this point in time!

Unfortunately the 2 minutes left weren't enough to answer questions as the next speaker was lining up to give his talk in just 12 minutes.

Nevertheless, more than 10 attendees came to me right after the talk to ask their questions and to thank me for giving this talk. We went outside the room to avoid any disturbance for the next speaker and discussed their questions with no rush.

I guess that's a good sign if there's interest after your talk and the attendees even miss the first minutes of the final talks as they want to talk with you.

## Afterthoughts & Tips

Overall, it was one of the best experiences I had in my professional career so far. The feeling of joy that I got out of my comfort zone really motivated me to tackle similar milestones from now on.

Timing-wise I could have done a bit better. While my session was planned for 50 minutes, I finished my talk within 48 minutes and hence had no time to answer questions directly from the audience. Nevertheless, I tried to help everyone that came to me after the talk, and we took a standing desk outside to discuss details or specific problems.

> After giving the talk, I was both super happy and relaxed. I immediately thought about what talks I can prepare next as I enjoyed the entire experience of being a speaker at a conference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After giving the talk, I was both super happy and relaxed. I immediately pondered about what talks I can prepare next, particularly as I enjoyed the entire experience of being a speaker at a conference.
```

The final slide deck is [available on Speaker Deck](https://speakerdeck.com/rieckpil/how-fixing-a-broken-window-cut-down-our-build-time-by-50-percent).

Kudos belong to [Sergi Almar](https://twitter.com/sergialmar/) and his entire team for the amazing organization of this event!

> In summary, these are the tips and recommendations I can give as a first timer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, these are the tips and recommendations I can offer as a first timer:
```

- Do at least one trial run. If you've never presented in front of a bigger audience, use an internal event or a meetup to train your talk and presentation skills

> - Get a mentor or buddy to help out with the slide deck and talk preparation (I didn't had one but advice for it if you've done not many other public speaking session inside your company)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Get a mentor or buddy to help out with the slide deck and talk preparation (I didn't have one but advise you to do so if you've not done so many other public speaking sessions. 
```

> - Record yourself during your trial run(s). I know that's super awkward if you're doing it for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Record yourself during your trial run(s). I know that it's super awkward if you're doing it for the first time.
```

> - Cut your best trial recording to have a plan B if everything goes south. Imagine a positive COVID test right before the conference. This way, you can at least send the recording to the organizers, and they can play it inside the room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cut your best trial recording to have a plan B if everything goes south. Imagine a positive COVID test right before the conference. This way, you can at least send the recording to the organizers, and they can play it inside the room.
```

> - Check the hardware on stage in a coffee break some hours before your talk starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the hardware on stage in a coffee break a few hours before your talk starts.
```

> - Have fun. You're there to talk about stuff that you care.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have fun. You're there to talk about stuff that you care about. 
```

> - Don't do live coding on your first talk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't do live coding during your first talk.
```

> - Hve fallback option for everything: Batteries for your presenter, maybe a second laptop, a USB with the final talk on it, mobile data if the conference WLAN is flaky, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a fallback option for everything: Batteries for your presenter, maybe a second laptop, a USB with the final talk on it, mobile data if the conference WLAN is flaky, etc.
```

> - Use big font sizes - the attendees in the last rows will thank you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use big font sizes - the attendees in the last rows will thank you!
```

> - Don't overuse bullet points that make your audience tired

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Don't overuse bullet points as they can make your audience tired

> - Fresh up things with graphics, images and short summaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Freshen up things with graphics, images and short summaries
```

> - Upload your slide deck to Speaker Deck afterward

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upload your slide deck to Speaker Deck afterwards
```

- Don't use dark themes when screenshotting your code examples (I use the distraction free mode of IntelliJ IDEA for my screenshots)

> - Talk water and maybe some throat candy to the stage if your voice starts cracking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bring some water and maybe some throat candy to the stage in case your voice starts cracking
```

> - Wear cloths that you feel comfortable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wear cloths that you feel comfortable in
```
